We've got our pork belly,
you know, as famously known as bacon,
but we have to get it to that point.
So there are a few different things
to talk about before we get to that point.
So one being is that not
all parts of the belly are created equal.
The muscle structure
certainly changes around the end,
where it meets up with the leg.
We've got for, you know,
anatomy purposes.
We've got our flank steak in here
and our bavette here.
But what I'm more concerned about
is actually these two muscles here,
which are the one diaphragm muscle.
And then we've got our outside skirt,
which would be this one here
our inside skirt sorry.
So inside skirt, outside skirt
or diaphragm muscle,
I actually use these ones as my markers.
So I'm using this inside skirt
as my marker.
Where the inside skirt ends is where
I like to actually square off the belly
because again,
it starts to really change in structure.
We see a lot more separation of muscles.
We see glands in here again
that we would want to remove.
So this actually gets trimmed out again.
Our flank steak here our bavette here.
This actually gets trimmed out
and used for mince.
So that's that part of it.
I'm going to
start by removing this skirt steak
or diaphragm muscle here,
so how I like to do
that is like to lay my knife
flat on the bone and use that as my guide,
and I'm just going to run
my knife underneath the skirt steak
like so.
And I remove it.
And this could be saved for a skirt steak,
I suppose if you had a few,
you could make a sandwich,
but normally they would find its way
into the mince meat.
Now we're we're left
with is a bone in belly square cut
could use the whole thing for bacon,
but again, we'll get to that point.
first thing I want to do
is actually demonstrate
a couple of these bone in belly chops,
which are quite nice.
So I'm going to take off a couple
where we took off the shoulder.
So I'll turn it around
and I'm
literally just going right
between the bones
and I'm going to go right through.
And we make these very majestical
bone in belly chops,
which can be braised.
Barbecue.
Slow roasted.
You know, the possibilities are endless,
but it's just that nice
meat to fat ratio that you get
that makes these such a stunning chop.